---
layout: post
title: GE-Proton 8-2 is out now!
subtitle: Enjoy the latest version of GE-Proton!
categories: linux gaming
tags: [linux, gaming, proton]
banner:
  image: /assets/images/banners/steam.jpg
  opacity: 0.618
  background: "#000"
  height: "70vh"
  min_height: "38vh"
  heading_style: "font-size: 3em; font-weight: bold"
  subheading_style: "color: #9580ff"
---
## Introduction
The gaming industry has experienced significant growth over the years, and Steam has played a major role in this growth. However, for Linux users, gaming has been a bit of a challenge due to the lack of support for popular games. This is where Proton comes in, a compatibility layer developed by Valve to allow Windows games to run on Linux systems. While Valve maintains and supports an official version of Proton, the community also develops its own version, known as GE-Proton.

## GE-Proton 8-2
The latest release of [GE-Proton is the 8-2 version](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/proton-ge-custom/releases/tag/GE-Proton8-2), which is specifically designed for the Steam Deck and Linux desktop. This version is community-made and community-supported, and as such, it comes with a disclaimer that it may work better than the official Valve Proton but is less tested and may have its own issues.

One of the benefits of GE-Proton is that it is constantly evolving, with the community regularly releasing new updates and patches. This ensures that users have access to the latest features and bug fixes. Additionally, GE-Proton includes a range of enhancements that improve the overall gaming experience on Linux systems, such as increased performance and better graphics.

It's important to note that using GE-Proton does come with some risks, as the version is not officially supported by Valve. However, if you're willing to take the risk and want to try out the latest version of Proton, then GE-Proton 8-2 is definitely worth checking out.

## Changes
**Changes in GE-Proton 8-2:**
* wine updated to bleeding edge
* dxvk updated to latest git
* vkd3d-proton updated to latest git
* dxvk-nvapi updated to latest git
* flicker issue fixed in MH Rise
* Shatterline working again
* missing stub backported from wine 8.5 to fix chromium, gameglass
* fixup for daedalic games protonfixes (they were in the wrong folder, thanks marianoag)
* protonfix added for Conception PLUS
* instructions added for steam snap installation in readme (thanks baa14453)
* flatpak url updated in readme (thanks benaryorg)
* dxvk-nvapi game-specific enablements updated from upstream proton
* steam client update from upstream proton

See more in [GamingonLinux Steam Play and Proton guide](https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2019/07/a-simple-guide-to-steam-play-valves-technology-for-playing-windows-games-on-linux/).